# READ4

## Paper reference:

William G.J. Halfond, Saswat Anand, and Alessandro Orso. 2009. Precise interface identification to improve testing and analysis of web applications. In Proceedings of the eighteenth international symposium on Software testing and analysis (ISSTA '09). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 285-296.

The paper had 60 citations at time of writing.

## Keywords:

* ii1: **Program testing**: Performing an investigation to gauge the quality of a piece of software, especially when used under specific conditions.
* ii2: **Automated web application testing**: Automatically testing web applications involve both static and dynamic analysis, with an emphasis on the latter. Dynamic testing is computationally difficult given the large number of input options for a web page, making it an active area of current research.
* ii3: **Symbolic execution**: Symbolic execution is a method of checking which (set of) inputs trigger parts of a program to execute, and can be represented graphically as a path. Execution time is typically exponential.
* ii4: **Penetration testing**: Penetration testing tests if a piece of software (usually a web application) can be exploited, particularly with malicious user input. 

## Notes:

* iii1: Motivational Statements: The authors spend a good bit of space motivating the problem of web page testing. Specifically, while most software comes with an API to dictate the interface, web applications do not. Therefore the first major problem is non-uniformity of the interfaces, which causes many problems automation. The authors enumerate over existing techniques for parsing through web pages, the “best” one being to manually set things like data types and identify when the interface is behaving/misbehaving. Note that these issues are not solved much better by 2011, which the paper from READ1 came out.
* iii2: Hypothesis. The authors hypothesize that using symbolic execution will help generalize the interface capability of these testing tools – instead of plugging in exact values, the tester can track variables and “sense” how to explore new paths. The results seem favorable, further enforced by the authors of the paper in READ1 using symbolic execution in their algorithm.
* iii3: Data: For the experiments later in the paper, the authors used “four commercial Java-based web applications available from GotoCode (http:// www.gotocode.com/) that we have used in previous work.” They also compare their tool against three other existing tools, `WAM-DF`, `SPIDER`, and `DFW`. In the paper the authors provide links to the source code of these tools, allowing the whole experiment to be reproducible. 

* iii4: Checklist: In the evaluation section, the authors use the following three questions to guide their experiments: 
    * RQ1: Efficiency – Is the new approach efficient in terms of its analysis time requirements? 
    * RQ2: Precision – Is the new approach more precise than previous approaches? 
    * RQ3: Usefulness – Does the new approach improve the performance of quality assurance techniques? 


## Improvements:

* iv1: Statistics. All the reported statistics are simply the averages. But run times, etc. never come from a single run, so what did the quartiles/quintiles look like? Was there one quick run time and the rest were fairly long? Or vice-versa? These questions cannot be answered by how the presented their data, giving a smaller picture of their results than is possible. 
* iv2: Open source code. Ironically, even though the authors use open source tools and data from other authors, they do not provide any info about whether their own tool is open source or not. Given that they present experiments where their tool beats every other tool, it seems that they should share their implementation. 
* iv3: Future work? The authors conclude their paper with a related works section, highlighting how their approach is different than existing tools and handles the needs of dynamic web content. However, they do not suggest future work, or identify where they were surprised with their own results. Surely their results informed their thought process in some manner, why not share those results?
